---
date: "2016-10-03T08:30:00-05:00"
draft: true
title: Close the loops
tags: ["GTD","Writing","Projects"]
slug: "close-loops"

--- 

## Project management is anxiety management

Last week I presented a best practices workshop on project management
for my fellow graduate students. The purpose was to provide younger
students in the program with ideas and concepts for managing projects
"from idea to publication". Preparing my presentation for the workshop
afforded me the opportunity to reflect on the principles of
productivity that I've learned over the years. Academe is not unlike
many other professions, vis-a-vis the functionally infinite demands on
the time and attention on graduate students and faculty. But for many
graduate students, the lost productivity is especially pernicious
because the time wastes are so deceptive. With so much so-called
leisure time, how is it that academics never seem to have any time to
do anything? I think the answer is a failure to recognize the basic
truths about organizing:  project management is really
just *anxiety management* that arises from all the open loops of
unfinished projects and uncompleted tasks. Thus, if we can wrest
control of the open loops, we'll have cognitive bandwidth to do the
work that is most interesting to us. <!---more--->

Open loops are all the miscellaneous to-do items that the brain tries
to remind itself about it. Funny thing about the brain, it's terrible
at remembering thing when you need to do something. Because your brain
cannot trust itself to remind you about milk before you leave campus,
it tries to remind you throughout the day. Likewise with the readings
you have to do, papers that need revision, grading, and so forth. The
result is that the mind stays in an open loop of constant reminding
and anxiety inducing uncertainty that something is going to get
dropped or forgotten. I can overstate how utterly destructive this is
for academic productivity because once the mind is the open loop, it
is nearly impossible to concentrate with any rigor to focus on the
major tasks. (If you're skeptical, take a look at [Deep Work]() by Cal
Newport and Daniel Levitin's, [The Organized Mind]](). 

What I have below is not yet another "productivity p0rn" blog
post. Rather, I want highlight a few basic concepts of the GTD
'system' with the hope that it offers some clarity on how to get a
handle on academic productivity. 

# Tasks, Context, and Projects: a GTD crash course

I had the good fortune to read David Allen's [Getting Things Done]()
way back in 2007 or 2008. I believe it was Merlin Mann who mentioned
it on a tech podcast while referencing the [Hipster PDA](). All well
and good, but I didn't appreciate the usefulness of the hPDA or GTD
until I found myself writing a Master's thesis while working active
duty with the California Air National Guard. With so little time to
work on my thesis, I had to stay on top of all the moving parts if I
wanted to make any progress. 

The GTD system centers on a basic distinction between tasks and
projects. Tasks are single actions that produce some change in the
state of world; projects are any collection of two or more tasks that
produce a change in the state of the world. For example, emailing a
professor to get his or her office hours is a task. But meeting with a
professor during office hours is a project. Why? In the first case,
the goal is to get reference information that will be useful for the
entire semester. In the second case, you need to prepare for office
hours by reviewing your notes, emailing the professor to let him or
her know you're coming that day, you may have to send a draft of a
project you're working on a few days before hand, etc.,
etc. Ultimately, the distinction can be somewhat arbitrary and it
isn't worth stressing over. But it's helpful to know this so that you
can organize your tasks more appropriately. 

The second major concept for an effective GTD execution is the
distinction between projects and contexts. Projects were defined
previously, but contexts are the primary pre-requisites before the
task can be accomplished. The ideal goal is to pair every task to both
a project and a context. 

# Daily and weekly review 

All this may sound fine in principle but how one executes in practice
can make or break whether all the loops are closed. The whole point of
using a system like GTD is that by doing so, you can concentrate on
the things that are important, like writing papers, writing code for
your statistics package, reading for that theory class, and the like. 